hiya skip kay back with another weekend
project and the pages of Make Magazine
I'll be the first to admit I enjoy an
occasional frosty beverage mm-hmm but
out of all the things I've made over the
years I've never made my own beer now I
have some friends who have and from what
I understand it's a little bit
time-consuming but in the end rewarding
so maybe someday I'll do a project of
how to make your own beer and when that
day arrives I'm sure I'll want a way to
keep the beer cold and also portable
well there's a project in make vol 7
that fits the bill it's called a
convertible jockey box and that's what
we're gonna build today so join me
for the convertible jockey box project
you will need a cooler square or round
this one is a 15 gallon cooler you'll
need about 8 feet of thick walled beer
tubing a 50 foot coil of 3/8 inch
stainless steel draft coil you also need
a few plumbing fittings and compressor
fittings which you can get at your
plumbing or hardware store and a picnic
faucet to dispense your beer any brass
parts you use will have to have the
excess lead removed and you do that by
soaking the brass parts in two parts
vinegar and one part
hydrogen peroxide and about 15 minutes
is what it'll take now it's time to get
to work on our cooler so a 3/8 inch
drill bit will come in handy because
we're going to drill two holes through
the cooler about 6 inches apart and
clean off any of the styrofoam or
plastic that's left to brass nipples
will be inserted through those two holes
and you can either thread them in or
pound them in with a hammer which is
what I did I did need to take one more
ride back to the store to pick up a few
barbed hose adapter fittings with female
ends because these will go on our two
pipe nipples that we just installed now
we end up with a beer in and beer
outside now the beer inside will get a
male compressor plug screwed into that
and tightened up and the beer outside
gets a barbed hose adapter fitting and
now it's time for beer tubing so we'll
cut an 18 inch piece off this will be
our dispenser line and this will go to
our beer outside and with all of these
connections we're going to add a hose
clamp to tighten everything down if you
have any trouble with these beer tubing
connections soak the tubing in some hot
water for a few seconds and that will
make a little bit more pliable and
easier to get on your fitting the picnic
faucet gets attached to the other end of
our dispenser line now it's time for
another compressor coupler and we will
attach a hose barb fitting to the one
end of that and a four-inch piece of
beer tubing will be attached to that end
the other end of that assembly gets
attached to the inside of our beer
outline about a 3-foot length of beer
tubing will be cut and that will be
attached to our beer in line now it's
time to make some connections to our
drain
left coil so two eight inch pieces of
beer tubing will be attached to both
ends of the draught coil along with hose
clamps and the two ends of those pieces
of tubing will each get a barbed hose
fitting and then those will each get two
compressor plugs now it's time to put
the draft coil in the cooler and I tell
you what I I was having a little bit of
difficulty getting this draft coil in
and realized that I needed to remove the
one compressor fitting I was kind of
getting in the way so I unscrewed that
that gave me plenty of room for the
draft coil which I pushed to the bottom
of the cooler and then reattach the
compressor fitting and our final two
connections are the two couplers that
get plugged into both of our compressor
fittings as you can see it's a pretty
compact and neat design so the last step
of course is to add ice the convertible
jockey box is pretty much finished the
last step would be to get a coupler that
fits either your homebrew keg or a
commercial keg and that will go on the
beer inline which is this one now you
might be wondering why it's called a
convertible jockey box well there's a
good reason for that
now those compressor fittings that we
put in here will those allow you to pop
them off remove the draft coil and then
you could put a mini keg inside and
attach the mini keg to your lines add
some ice and your mini keg will stay
cold for hours and you can also dispense
it like regular draft beer well that's
how to make a convertible jockey box
we'll see you next time with another
weekend project oh and Cheers